---
layout: post
title:  "Desktop build"
date:   2014-07-15 21:03:25
categories: draft
---

In the summer of 2012, I decided to build my own pc. It would be an AMD build,
because they are cheaper than Intel. It was about €650 at the time.
<ul>
<li>CPU: AMD FX-6300 @ 3.5GHz</li>
<li>MOBO: AsRock 970 Extreme 3</li>
<li>PSU: Sharkoon WPM500 500W</li>
<li>HDD: Seagate 1TB 7200rpm</li>
<li>SSD: Samsung 840 EVO 64GB</li>
<li>GPU: Club3D Radeon HD7770 1GB</li>
<li>RAM: 2x 4GB Corsair Vengeance 1600Mhz</li>
<li>Case: Sharkoon T9</li>
</ul>

I ordered all of the components online, and when they arrived a week later, I
was super excited to get my hands on it. It was easy and a lot of fun to do.
I just followed some tutorial on the interwebs, connected some wires, hoped that nothing was damaged and BAM,
there was my superfast, supercheap self-built computer.
Having the computer for over three years now, I am very satisfied with it. It boots
quickly (thanks to the small SSD) and runs smoothly. It only had a few crashes, but
the hardest thing I ever had to do, was taking the RAM out and put it back in.
The only real issue I have had with it, is the loudness of the GPU fan, it's almost like an airplane taking off.
To fix that, I installed TriXx GPU tweak tool to enhance the fan speed, and now everything is quiet.

<br>
Update 11/06/2016: 
My desktop started to show some issues. It froze at random. 
I thought it was OS-related because I just installed 
windows 10 on it, so I figured it would be a good idea 
to run ubuntu on it on a new SSD. I installed ubuntu 15.04, 
because in the newer 16.04 there is no support for fglrx. 
Fglrx was necessary, not only for the OS to function, but also for the 
fans to be quiet. Unfortunately, it was not an OS problem and my 
computer still freezes from time to time. I haven't figured out what the problem is.

<br>
